These were the divisions of the descendants of Aaron. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father did, and they had no sons; so Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests.
With the help of Eleazar’s descendant Zadok and Ithamar’s descendant Ahimelech, David divided them according to the offices of their service.
Since more leaders were found among Eleazar’s descendants than those of Ithamar, they were divided accordingly. There were sixteen heads of families from the descendants of Eleazar and eight from the descendants of Ithamar.
Thus they were divided by lot, for there were officers of the sanctuary and officers of God among both Eleazar’s and Ithamar’s descendants.
The scribe, Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded their names in the presence of the king and of the officers: Zadok the priest, Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the heads of families of the priests and the Levites — one family being taken from Eleazar, and then one from Ithamar.
The first lot fell to Jehoiarib,
the third to Harim,
the fifth to Malchijah,
the seventh to Hakkoz,
the ninth to Jeshua,
the eleventh to Eliashib,
the thirteenth to Huppah,
the fifteenth to Bilgah,
the seventeenth to Hezir,
the nineteenth to Pethahiah,
the twenty-first to Jachin,
the twenty-third to Delaiah,
This was their appointed order for service when they entered the house of the LORD, according to the regulations prescribed for them by their forefather Aaron, as the LORD, the God of Israel, had commanded him.
Now these were the rest of the descendants of Levi:
As for Rehabiah, from his sons: The first was Isshiah.
From the Izharites: Shelomoth;
From the sons of Hebron: Jeriah was the first,
From the sons of Uzziel: Micah;
The brother of Micah: Isshiah;
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi.
The descendants of Merari from Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri.
From Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
From Kish: Jerahmeel the son of Kish.
And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth.
As their brothers the descendants of Aaron did, they also cast lots in the presence of King David and of Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the families of the priests and Levites— the family heads and their younger brothers alike.
