So all Israel was recorded in the genealogies written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. But Judah was exiled to Babylon because of their unfaithfulness.
Now the first to resettle their own property in their cities were Israelites, priests, Levites, and temple servants.
Some of the descendants of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem:
Uthai son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, a descendant of Perez son of Judah.
From the Shilonites:
From the Zerahites:
From the Benjamites:
Ibneiah son of Jeroham;
and 956 of their relatives according to their genealogy. All these men were heads of their families.
From the priests:
Azariah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the chief official of God’s temple;
Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah;
and 1,760 of their relatives, the heads of their families, able men for the work of the service of the house of God.
From the Levites:
Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal, and Mattaniah son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;
Obadiah son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun;
These were the gatekeepers:
he was previously stationed at the King’s Gate on the east side. These were the gatekeepers from the camp of the Levites.
Shallum son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph,
In earlier times Phinehas son of Eleazar had been in charge of the gatekeepers, and the LORD was with him.
Zechariah son of Meshelemiah was the gatekeeper at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.
The number of those chosen to be gatekeepers at the thresholds was 212. They were registered by genealogy in their villages. David and Samuel the seer had appointed them to their positions of trust.
So they and their descendants were assigned to guard the gates of the house of the LORD — the house called the Tent.
The gatekeepers were stationed on the four sides: east, west, north, and south.
Their relatives came from their villages at fixed times to serve with them for seven-day periods.
But the four chief gatekeepers, who were Levites, were entrusted with the rooms and the treasuries of the house of God.
They would spend the night stationed around the house of God, because they were responsible for guarding it and opening it every morning.
Some of them were in charge of the articles used in worship, to count them whenever they were brought in or taken out.
Others were put in charge of the furnishings and other articles of the sanctuary, as well as the fine flour, wine, oil, frankincense, and spices.
And some of the sons of the priests mixed the spices.
A Levite named Mattithiah, the firstborn son of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with baking the bread.
Some of their Kohathite relatives were responsible for preparing the rows of the showbread every Sabbath.
Those who were musicians, the heads of Levite families, stayed in the temple chambers and were exempt from other duties because they were on duty day and night.
All these were heads of Levite families, chiefs according to their genealogies, and they lived in Jerusalem.
Jeiel the father
Abdon was his firstborn son, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth.
Mikloth was the father of Shimeam.
Ner was the father of Kish, Kish was the father of Saul, and Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal.
The son of Jonathan:
The sons of Micah:
Ahaz was the father of Jarah; Jarah
Moza was the father of Binea. Rephaiah
And Azel had six sons, and these were their names:
