Adam, Seth, Enosh,
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, Noah.
The sons of Noah:
The sons of Japheth:
The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath,
And the sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittites, and the Rodanites.
The sons of Ham:
The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta,
Cush was the father of Nimrod, who began to be a mighty one
Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, the Anamites, the Lehabites, the Naphtuhites,
the Pathrusites, the Casluhites (from whom the Philistines came), and the Caphtorites.
And Canaan was the father of Sidon his firstborn,
the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
The sons of Shem:
Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber.
Two sons were born to Eber: One was named Peleg,
And Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
Obal,
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were sons of Joktan.
So from Shem came Arphaxad, Shelah,
Eber, Peleg, Reu,
Serug, Nahor, Terah,
and Abram (that is, Abraham).
The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael.
These are their genealogies:
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.
The sons born to Keturah, Abraham’s concubine:
The sons of Midian:
Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac:
The sons of Esau:
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho,
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
The sons of Seir:
The sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam.
The sons of Shobal: Alvan,
The son
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan.
These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites:
When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah reigned in his place.
When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Avith.
When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.
When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth on the Euphrates
When Shaul died, Baal-hanan son of Achbor reigned in his place.
When Baal-hanan died, Hadad reigned in his place. His city was named Pau,
Then Hadad died.
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
Magdiel, and Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom.
