This is the list of the Israelites— the heads of families, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in every matter concerning the divisions on rotating military duty each month throughout the year. There were 24,000 men in each division:
Jashobeam son of Zabdiel was in charge of the first division, which was assigned the first month. There were 24,000 men in his division.
He was a descendant of Perez and chief of all the army commanders for the first month.
Dodai
The third army commander, as chief for the third month, was Benaiah son of Jehoiada the priest. There were 24,000 men in his division.
This Benaiah was mighty among the Thirty and was over the Thirty, and his son Ammizabad was in charge of his division.
The fourth, for the fourth month, was Joab’s brother Asahel, and his son Zebadiah was commander after him. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The fifth, for the fifth month, was the commander Shamhuth
The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite, a Benjamite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai
These officers were in charge of the tribes of Israel:
over Levi was Hashabiah son of Kemuel;
over Judah was Elihu, one of David’s brothers;
over Zebulun was Ishmaiah son of Obadiah;
over the Ephraimites was Hoshea son of Azaziah;
over the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead was Iddo son of Zechariah;
and over Dan was Azarel son of Jeroham.
David did not count the men aged twenty or under, because the LORD had said that He would make Israel as numerous as the stars of the sky.
Joab son of Zeruiah began to count the men but did not finish. For because of this census wrath came upon Israel, and the number was not entered in the Book of the Chronicles of King David.
Azmaveth son of Adiel was in charge of the royal storehouses.
Ezri son of Chelub was in charge of the workers in the fields who tilled the soil.
Shimei the Ramathite was in charge of the vineyards.
Baal-hanan the Gederite was in charge of the olive and sycamore trees in the foothills.
Shitrai the Sharonite was in charge of the herds grazing in Sharon.
Obil the Ishmaelite was in charge of the camels.
Jaziz the Hagrite was in charge of the flocks.
David’s uncle Jonathan was a counselor; he was a man of insight and a scribe.
Ahithophel was the king’s counselor.
Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada son of Benaiah, then by Abiathar.
