The sons of Issachar:
The sons of Tola:
The son
In addition to them, according to their genealogy, they had 36,000 troops for battle, for they had many wives and children.
Their kinsmen belonging to all the families of Issachar who were mighty men of valor totaled 87,000, as listed in their genealogies.
The three sons of Benjamin:
The sons of Bela:
The sons of Becher:
Their genealogies were recorded according to the heads of their families— 20,200 mighty men of valor.
The son of Jediael:
All these sons of Jediael were heads of their families, mighty men of valor; there were 17,200 fit for battle.
The Shuppites and Huppites were descendants of Ir, and the Hushites were descendants of Aher.
The sons of Naphtali:
The descendants of Manasseh: Asriel
Machir took a wife from among the Huppites and Shuppites. The name of his sister was Maacah.
Machir’s wife Maacah gave birth to a son, and she named him Peresh. His brother was named Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rekem.
The son of Ulam:
His sister Hammolecheth gave birth to Ishhod, Abiezer, and Mahlah.
And these were the sons of Shemida:
The descendants of Ephraim:
Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son.
Their father Ephraim mourned for many days, and his relatives came to comfort him.
And again he slept with his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to a son. So he named him Beriah,
His daughter was Sheerah, who built Lower and Upper Beth-horon, as well as Uzzen-sheerah.
Additionally, Rephah was his son, Resheph his son,
Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
Nun
Their holdings and settlements included Bethel and its villages, Naaran to the east, Gezer and its villages to the west, and Shechem and its villages as far as Ayyah
And along the borders of Manasseh were Beth-shean,
The children of Asher:
The sons of Beriah:
Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, and Hotham, and of their sister Shua.
The sons of Japhlet:
The sons of Shemer:
The sons of his brother Helem:
The sons of Zophah:
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran,
The sons of Jether:
The sons of Ulla:
All these were the descendants of Asher — heads of their families, choice and mighty men of valor, and chiefs among the leaders. The number of men fit for battle, recorded in their genealogies, was 26,000.
