Then all Israel came together to David at Hebron and said, “Here we are, your own flesh and blood.
Even in times past,
So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, where David made a covenant with them before the LORD. And they anointed him king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD through Samuel.
Then David and all the Israelites marched to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus), where the Jebusites inhabited the land.
The people of Jebus said to David, “You will never get in here.”
Now David had said, “Whoever is the first to strike down a Jebusite will become chief commander.”
So David took up residence in the fortress; that is why it was called the City of David.
He built up the city around it, from the supporting terraces
And David became greater and greater, for the LORD of Hosts was with him.
Now these were the chiefs of David’s mighty men, who, together with all Israel, bolstered and strengthened his kingdom, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.
This is the list of David’s mighty men:
Next in command was Eleazar son of Dodo
He was with David at Pas-dammim when the Philistines gathered there for battle. At a place with a field full of barley, the troops fled from the Philistines.
But Eleazar and David stationed themselves
Three of the thirty chief men went down to David, to the rock at the cave of Adullam, while a company of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
At that time David was in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was at Bethlehem.
David longed for water and said, “Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem!”
So the Three broke through the Philistine camp, drew water from the well at the gate of Bethlehem, and brought it back to David. But he refused to drink it; instead , he poured it out to the LORD,
saying, “Far be it from me, my God, to do this! How can I drink the blood of these men who risked their lives?” Because they had brought it at the risk of their lives, David refused to drink it.
Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, was chief of the Three,
He was doubly honored above the Three, and he became their commander, even though he was not included among the Three.
And Benaiah son of Jehoiada was a man of valor from Kabzeel, a man of many exploits. He struck down two champions of Moab,
He also struck down an Egyptian, a huge man five cubits tall.
These were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who won a name along with the three mighty men.
He was most honored among the Thirty, but he did not become one of the Three. And David appointed him over his guard.
Now these were the mighty men:
Shammoth the Harorite,
Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Sibbecai the Hushathite,
Maharai the Netophathite,
Ithai
Hurai
Azmaveth the Baharumite,
the sons of Hashem
Ahiam son of Sachar
Hepher the Mecherathite,
Hezro the Carmelite,
Joel the brother of Nathan,
Zelek the Ammonite,
Ira the Ithrite,
Uriah the Hittite,
Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, chief of the Reubenites, and the thirty with him,
Hanan son of Maacah,
Uzzia the Ashterathite,
Jediael son of Shimri and his brother Joha the Tizite,
Eliel the Mahavite,
Eliel, Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
