These were the sons of Israel:
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
The sons of Judah:
Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
The sons of Perez:
The sons of Zerah:
The son
The son of Ethan:
The sons who were born to Hezron:
Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, a leader of the descendants of Judah.
Nahshon was the father of Salmon,
Boaz was the father of Obed, and Obed was the father of Jesse.
Jesse was the father of Eliab his firstborn; Abinadab was born second, Shimea
Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth,
Ozem sixth, and David seventh.
Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the three sons of Zeruiah were Abishai, Joab, and Asahel.
Abigail was the mother of Amasa, whose father was Jether
Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah and by Jerioth. These were the sons of Azubah: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath,
Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri was the father of Bezalel.
Later, Hezron slept with the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead. He had married her when he was sixty years old, and she bore to him Segub.
Segub was the father of Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
But Geshur and Aram captured Havvoth-jair,
After Hezron died in Caleb-ephrathah, his wife Abijah bore
The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron:
Jerahmeel had another wife named Atarah, who was the mother of Onam.
The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel:
The sons of Onam:
Abishur’s wife was named Abihail, and she bore to him Ahban and Molid.
The sons of Nadab:
The son
The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai:
The sons of Jonathan:
Sheshan had no sons, but only daughters. He also had an Egyptian servant named Jarha.
Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his servant Jarha, and she bore to him Attai.
Attai was the father of Nathan, Nathan was the father of Zabad,
Zabad was the father of Ephlal, Ephlal was the father of Obed,
Obed was the father of Jehu, Jehu was the father of Azariah,
Azariah was the father of Helez, Helez was the father of Elasah,
Elasah was the father of Sismai, Sismai was the father of Shallum,
Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah was the father of Elishama.
The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel:
The sons of Hebron:
Shema was the father of Raham the father of Jorkeam, and Rekem was the father of Shammai.
The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
Caleb’s concubine Ephah was the mother of Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez.
The sons of Jahdai:
Caleb’s concubine Maacah was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah.
She was also the mother of Shaaph father of Madmannah, and of Sheva father of Machbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Acsah.
These were the descendants of Caleb.
Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
These were the descendants of Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim:
and the clans of Kiriath-jearim— the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and Eshtaolites.
The descendants of Salma:
and the clans of the scribes
