So they brought the ark of God and placed it inside the tent that David had pitched for it. And they presented burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
When David had finished sacrificing the burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD.
Then he distributed to every man and woman of Israel a loaf of bread, a date cake,
David appointed some of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD, to celebrate, to give thanks, and to praise the LORD, the God of Israel.
Asaph was the chief, Zechariah was second, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel. They were to play the harps and lyres, while Asaph sounded the cymbals
and the priests Benaiah and Jahaziel blew the trumpets regularly before the ark of the covenant of God.
On that day David first committed to Asaph and his associates this song of thanksgiving to the LORD:
“Give thanks to the LORD; call upon His name;
Sing to Him, sing praises to Him;
Glory in His holy name;
Seek out the LORD and His strength;
Remember the wonders He has done,
O offspring of His servant Israel,
He is the LORD our God;
Remember
the covenant He made with Abraham,
He confirmed it to Jacob as a decree,
‘I will give you the land of Canaan
When they were few in number,
they wandered from nation to nation,
He let no man oppress them;
‘Do not touch My anointed ones!
Sing to the LORD, all the earth.
Declare His glory among the nations,
For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised;
For all the gods of the nations are idols,
Splendor and majesty are before Him;
Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the nations,
Ascribe to the LORD the glory due His name;
tremble before Him, all the earth.
Let the heavens be glad,
Let the sea resound,
Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before the LORD,
Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good;
Then cry out: ‘Save us, O God of our salvation;
Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel,
So David left Asaph and his associates there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to minister there regularly according to the daily requirements,
along with Obed-edom and his sixty-eight relatives. Obed-edom son of Jeduthun, and also Hosah, were to be gatekeepers.
And David left Zadok the priest and his fellow priests before the tabernacle of the LORD at the high place in Gibeon
to regularly present burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of burnt offerings, morning and evening, according to all that was written in the Law of the LORD, which He had commanded Israel to keep.
With them were Heman, Jeduthun, and the rest of those chosen and designated by name to give thanks to the LORD, for “His loving devotion endures forever.”
Heman and Jeduthun had with them trumpets and cymbals for the music and instruments for the songs of God.
Then all the people departed for their homes, and David returned home to bless his household.
