Therefore, since Christ suffered
Consequently, he does not live out his remaining time on earth for human passions, but for the will of God.
For you have spent enough time in the past carrying out the same desires as the Gentiles: living in debauchery, lust, drunkenness, orgies, carousing, and detestable idolatry.
Because of this, they consider it strange of you not to plunge with them into the same flood of reckless indiscretion, and they heap abuse on you.
But they will have to give an account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
That is why the gospel was preached even to those who are now dead,
The end of all things is near. Therefore be clear-minded and sober, so that you can pray.
Above all, love one another deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins.
Show hospitality to one another without complaining.
As good stewards of the manifold grace of God, each of you should use whatever gift he has received to serve one another.
If anyone speaks, he should speak as one conveying the words of God. If anyone serves, he should serve with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial that has come upon you, as though something strange were happening to you.
But rejoice that you share in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed at the revelation of His glory.
If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you.
Indeed, none of you should suffer as a murderer or thief or wrongdoer, or even as a meddler.
But if you suffer as a Christian, do not be ashamed, but glorify God that you bear that name.
For it is time for judgment to begin with the family of God; and if it begins with us, what will the outcome be for those who disobey the gospel of God?
And,
So then, those who suffer according to God’s will should entrust their souls to their faithful Creator and continue to do good.
