At that time Hannah prayed:
There is no one holy like the LORD.
Do not boast so proudly,
The bows of the mighty are broken,
The well-fed hire themselves out for food,
The LORD brings death and gives life;
The LORD sends poverty and wealth;
He raises the poor from the dust
He guards the steps of His faithful ones,
Those who oppose the LORD will be shattered.
Then Elkanah went home to Ramah, but the boy began ministering to the LORD before Eli the priest.
Now the sons of Eli were wicked men; they had no regard for the LORD
or for the custom of the priests with the people.
and plunge it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or cooking pot. And the priest would claim for himself whatever the meat fork brought up. This is how they treated all the Israelites who came to Shiloh.
Even before the fat was burned, the servant of the priest would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, “Give the priest some meat to roast, because he will not accept boiled meat from you, but only raw.”
And if any man said to him, “The fat must be burned first; then you may take whatever you want,” the servant would reply, “No, you must give it to me right now. If you refuse, I will take it by force!”
Thus the sin of these young men was severe in the sight of the LORD, for they
Now Samuel was ministering before the LORD — a boy wearing a linen ephod.
Each year his mother would make him a little robe and bring it to him when she went with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice.
And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, saying, “May the LORD give you children by this woman in place of the one she dedicated to the LORD.
So the LORD attended to Hannah, and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters.
Now Eli was very old, and he heard about everything his sons were doing to all Israel and how they were sleeping with the women who served at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.
“Why are you doing these things?” Eli said to his sons. “I hear about your wicked deeds from all these people.
No, my sons; it is not a good report I hear circulating among the LORD’s people.
If a man sins against another man, God
And the boy Samuel continued to grow in stature and in favor with the LORD and with man.
Then a man of God came to Eli and told him, “This is what the LORD says: ‘Did I not clearly reveal Myself to your father’s house when they were in Egypt under Pharaoh’s house?
And out of all the tribes of Israel I selected your father to be My priest, to offer sacrifices on My altar, to burn incense, and to wear an ephod in My presence. I also gave to the house of your father all the food offerings of the Israelites.
Why then do you kick at
Therefore, the LORD, the God of Israel, declares:
Behold, the days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your father’s house, so that no one in it will reach old age.
You will see distress in My dwelling place. Despite all that is good in Israel, no one in your house will ever again reach old age.
And every one of you that I do not cut off from My altar, I will cause your eyes to fail and your heart to grieve.
And this sign shall come to you concerning your two sons Hophni and Phinehas: They will both die on the same day.
Then I will raise up for Myself a faithful priest. He will do whatever is in My heart and mind. And I will build for him an enduring house, and he will walk before My anointed one for all time.
And everyone left in your house will come and bow down to him for a piece of silver or a morsel of bread, pleading, “Please appoint me to some priestly office so that I can eat a piece of bread.”’”
