He made a bronze altar twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and ten cubits high.
He also made the Sea of cast metal. It was circular in shape, measuring ten cubits from rim to rim, five cubits in height, and thirty cubits in circumference.
Below the rim, figures of oxen encircled it, ten per cubit all the way around the Sea, cast in two rows as a part of the Sea.
The Sea stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east. The Sea rested on them, with all their hindquarters toward the center.
It was a handbreadth thick,
He also made ten basins for washing and placed five on the south side and five on the north. The parts of the burnt offering were rinsed in them, but the priests used the Sea for washing.
He made ten gold lampstands according to their specifications and placed them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north.
Additionally, he made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north. He also made a hundred gold bowls.
He made the courtyard of the priests and the large court with its doors, and he overlaid the doors with bronze.
He put the Sea on the south side, at the southeast corner.
Additionally, Huram made the pots, shovels, and sprinkling bowls.
the two pillars;
the four hundred pomegranates for the two sets of network (two rows of pomegranates for each network covering both the bowl-shaped capitals atop the pillars);
the stands;
the Sea;
and the pots, shovels, meat forks, and all the other articles.
The king had them cast in clay molds in the plain of the Jordan between Succoth and Zeredah.
Solomon made all these articles in such great abundance that the weight of the bronze could not be determined.
Solomon also made all the furnishings for the house of God:
the lampstands of pure gold and their lamps, to burn in front of the inner sanctuary as prescribed;
the flowers, lamps, and tongs of gold— of purest gold;
the wick trimmers, sprinkling bowls, ladles, and censers of pure gold;
