These are the last words of David:
The Spirit of the LORD spoke through me;
The God of Israel spoke;
is like the light of the morning
Is not my house right with God?
But the worthless are all like thorns raked aside,
The man who touches them must be armed with iron
These are the names of David’s mighty men:
Next in command was Eleazar son of Dodo
but Eleazar stood his ground and struck the Philistines until his hand grew weary and stuck to his sword. The LORD brought about a great victory that day. Then the troops returned to him, but only to plunder the dead.
And after him was Shammah son of Agee the Hararite. When the Philistines had banded together near a field full of lentils, Israel’s troops fled from them.
But Shammah took his stand in the middle of the field, defended it, and struck down the Philistines. So the LORD brought about a great victory.
At harvest time, three of the thirty chief men went down to David at the cave of Adullam, while a company of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
At that time David was in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was at Bethlehem.
David longed for water and said, “Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem!”
So the three mighty men broke through the Philistine camp, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem, and brought it back to David. But he refused to drink it; instead , he poured it out to the LORD,
saying, “Far be it from me, O LORD, to do this! Is this not the blood of the men who risked their lives?” So he refused to drink it.
Now Abishai, the brother of Joab and son of Zeruiah, was chief of the Three,
Was he not more honored than the Three?
And Benaiah son of Jehoiada was a man of valor
He also struck down an Egyptian, a huge man. Although the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, Benaiah went against him with a club, snatched the spear from his hand, and killed the Egyptian with his own spear.
These were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who won a name along with the three mighty men.
He was most honored among the Thirty, but he did not become one of the Three. And David appointed him over his guard.
Now these were members of the Thirty:
Shammah the Harodite,
Helez the Paltite,
Abiezer the Anathothite,
Zalmon the Ahohite,
Heled
Benaiah the Pirathonite,
Abi-albon the Arbathite,
Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
son of Shammah
Eliphelet son of Ahasbai the Maacathite,
Hezro the Carmelite,
Igal son of Nathan of Zobah,
Zelek the Ammonite,
Ira the Ithrite,
and Uriah the Hittite.
