King Nebuchadnezzar,
I am pleased to declare the signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed for me.
How great are His signs,
I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and flourishing in my palace.
I had a dream, and it frightened me; while I was in my bed, the images and visions in my mind alarmed me.
So I issued a decree that all the wise men of Babylon be brought before me to interpret the dream for me.
When the magicians, enchanters, astrologers,
But at last, into my presence came Daniel (whose name is Belteshazzar after the name of my god, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods). And I told him the dream:
“O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you and that no mystery baffles you. So explain to me the visions I saw in my dream, and their interpretation.
In these visions of my mind as I was lying in bed, I saw this come to pass:
The tree grew large and strong;
Its leaves were beautiful,
As I lay on my bed, I also saw in the visions of my mind a watcher,
He called out in a loud voice:
But leave the stump with its roots in the ground,
Let his mind be changed from that of a man,
This decision is the decree of the watchers,
This is the dream that I, King Nebuchadnezzar, saw. Now, Belteshazzar, tell me the interpretation, because none of the wise men of my kingdom can interpret it for me. But you are able, because the spirit of the holy gods is in you.”
For a time, Daniel, who was also known as Belteshazzar, was perplexed, and his thoughts alarmed him.
The tree you saw that grew large and strong, whose top reached the sky and was visible to all the earth,
whose foliage was beautiful and whose fruit was abundant, providing food for all, under which the beasts of the field lived, and in whose branches the birds of the air nested—
you, O king, are that tree! For you have become great and strong; your greatness has grown to reach the sky, and your dominion extends to the ends of the earth.
And you, O king, saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying:
This is the interpretation, O king, and this is the decree that the Most High has issued against my lord the king:
You will be driven away from mankind, and your dwelling will be with the beasts of the field. You will feed on grass like an ox and be drenched with the dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass you by, until you acknowledge that the Most High rules over the kingdom of mankind and gives it to whom He wishes.
As for the command to leave the stump of the tree with its roots, your kingdom will be restored to you as soon as you acknowledge that Heaven rules.
Therefore, may my advice be pleasing to you, O king. Break away from your sins by doing what is right, and from your iniquities by showing mercy to the oppressed. Perhaps there will be an extension of your prosperity.”
All this happened to King Nebuchadnezzar.
Twelve months later, as he was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon,
the king exclaimed, “Is this not Babylon the Great, which I myself have built as a royal residence by the might of my power and for the glory of my majesty?”
While the words were still in the king’s mouth, a voice came from heaven: “It is decreed to you, King Nebuchadnezzar, that the kingdom has departed from you.
You will be driven away from mankind to live with the beasts of the field, and you will feed on grass like an ox. And seven times will pass you by, until you acknowledge that the Most High rules over the kingdom of mankind and gives it to whom He wishes.”
At that moment the sentence against Nebuchadnezzar was fulfilled. He was driven away from mankind. He ate grass like an ox, and his body was drenched with the dew of heaven, until his hair grew like the feathers of an eagle and his nails like the claws of a bird.
But at the end of those days I, Nebuchadnezzar, looked up to heaven, and my sanity was restored to me. Then I praised the Most High, and I honored and glorified Him who lives forever:
All the peoples of the earth
At the same time my sanity was restored, my honor and splendor returned to me for the glory of my kingdom. My advisers and nobles sought me out, and I was restored to my throne, and surpassing greatness was added to me.
Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and exalt and glorify the King of heaven, for all His works are true and all His ways are just. And He is able to humble those who walk in pride.
