A good name is better than fine perfume,
It is better to enter a house of mourning
Sorrow is better than laughter,
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning,
It is better to heed a wise man’s rebuke
For like the crackling of thorns under the pot,
Surely extortion turns a wise man into a fool,
The end of a matter is better than the beginning,
Do not be quickly provoked in your spirit,
Do not say, “Why were the old days better than these?”
Wisdom, like an inheritance, is good,
For wisdom, like money, is a shelter,
Consider the work of God:
In the day of prosperity, be joyful,
In my futile life I have seen both of these:
Do not be overly righteous, and do not make yourself too wise. Why should you destroy yourself?
Do not be excessively wicked, and do not be a fool. Why should you die before your time?
It is good to grasp the one and not let the other slip from your hand. For he who fears God will follow both warnings.
Wisdom makes the wise man
Surely there is no righteous man on earth
Do not pay attention to every word that is spoken, or you may hear your servant cursing you.
For you know in your heart that many times you yourself have cursed others.
All this I tested by wisdom, saying, “I resolve to be wise.” But it was beyond me.
What exists is out of reach and very deep. Who can fathom it?
I directed my mind to understand, to explore, to search out wisdom and explanations, and to understand the stupidity of wickedness and the folly of madness.
And I find more bitter than death the woman who is a snare, whose heart is a net, and whose hands are chains. The man who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is ensnared.
“Behold,” says the Teacher, “I have discovered this by adding one thing to another to find an explanation.
While my soul was still searching but not finding, among a thousand I have found one upright man, but among all these I have not found one such woman.
Only this have I found: I have discovered that God made mankind upright, but they have sought out many schemes.”
