In the ninth year, on the tenth day of the tenth month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
“Son of man, write down today’s date, for on this very day the king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem.
Now speak a parable to this rebellious house and tell them that this is what the Lord GOD says:
Put in the pieces of meat,
Take the choicest of the flock
Therefore this is what the Lord GOD says:
For the blood she shed is still within her;
In order to stir up wrath
Yes, this is what the Lord GOD says:
Pile on the logs and kindle the fire;
Set the empty pot on its coals
It has frustrated every effort;
Because of the indecency of your uncleanness
I, the LORD, have spoken;
Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
“Son of man, behold, I am about to take away the desire of your eyes with a fatal blow. But you must not mourn or weep or let your tears flow.
Groan quietly; do not mourn for the dead. Put on your turban and strap your sandals on your feet; do not cover your lips or eat the bread of mourners.”
So I spoke to the people in the morning, and in the evening my wife died. And the next morning I did as I had been commanded.
Then the people asked me, “Won’t you tell us what these things you are doing mean to us?”
So I answered them, “The word of the LORD came to me, saying:
Tell the house of Israel that this is what the Lord GOD says: ‘I am about to desecrate My sanctuary, the pride of your power, the desire of your eyes, and the delight of your soul. And the sons and daughters you left behind will fall by the sword.’
Then you will do as I have done: You will not cover your lips or eat the bread of mourners.
Your turbans will remain on your heads and your sandals on your feet. You will not mourn or weep, but you will waste away because of your sins, and you will groan among yourselves.
‘Thus Ezekiel will be a sign for you; you will do everything that he has done. When this happens, you will know that I am the Lord GOD.’
And you, son of man, know that on the day I take away their stronghold, their pride and joy — the desire of their eyes which uplifted their souls — and their sons and daughters as well,
on that day a fugitive will come and tell you the news.
On that day your mouth will be opened to him who has escaped; you will speak and no longer be mute. So you will be a sign to them, and they will know that I am the LORD.”
