Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
“What do you people mean by quoting this proverb about the land of Israel:
As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, you will no longer quote this proverb in Israel.
Behold, every soul belongs to Me; both father and son are Mine. The soul who sins is the one who will die.
Now suppose a man is righteous and does what is just and right:
He does not eat at the mountain
He does not oppress another,
He does not engage in usury
He follows My statutes
Now suppose that man has a violent son, who sheds blood or does any of these things,
though the father has done none of them:
He oppresses the poor and needy;
He engages in usury
Now suppose this son has a son who sees all the sins his father has committed, considers them, and does not do likewise:
He does not eat at the mountain
He does not oppress another,
He withholds his hand from harming the poor
As for his father, he will die for his own iniquity, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what was wrong among his people.
Yet you may ask, ‘Why shouldn’t the son bear the iniquity of his father?’
The soul who sins is the one who will die. A son will not bear the iniquity of his father, and a father will not bear the iniquity of his son. The righteousness of the righteous man will fall upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked man will fall upon him.
But if the wicked man turns from all the sins he has committed, keeps all My statutes, and does what is just and right, he will surely live; he will not die.
None of the transgressions he has committed will be held against him. Because of the righteousness he has practiced, he will live.
Do I take any pleasure in the death of the wicked? declares the Lord GOD. Wouldn’t I prefer that he turn from his ways and live?
But if a righteous man turns from his righteousness and practices iniquity, committing the same abominations as the wicked, will he live? None of the righteous acts he did will be remembered. Because of the unfaithfulness and sin he has committed, he will die.
Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’
If a righteous man turns from his righteousness and practices iniquity, he will die for this. He will die because of the iniquity he has committed.
But if a wicked man turns from the wickedness he has committed and does what is just and right, he will save his life.
Because he considered and turned from all the transgressions he had committed, he will surely live; he will not die.
Yet the house of Israel says, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’
Therefore, O house of Israel, I will judge you, each according to his ways, declares the Lord GOD. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, so that your iniquity will not become your downfall.
Cast away from yourselves all the transgressions you have committed, and fashion for yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. Why should you die, O house of Israel?
For I take no pleasure in anyone’s death, declares the Lord GOD. So repent and live![’’]
