This is the burden against Egypt:
“So I will incite Egyptian against Egyptian;
Then the spirit of the Egyptians will be emptied out from among them,
I will deliver the Egyptians into the hands of a harsh master,
The waters of the Nile will dry up,
The canals will stink;
The bulrushes by the Nile,
Then the fishermen will mourn,
The workers in flax will be dismayed,
The workers in cloth
The princes of Zoan are mere fools;
Where are your wise men now?
The princes of Zoan have become fools;
The LORD has poured into her
There is nothing Egypt can do —
In that day the Egyptians will be like women. They will tremble with fear beneath the uplifted hand of the LORD of Hosts, when He brandishes it against them.
The land of Judah will bring terror to Egypt; whenever Judah is mentioned, Egypt will tremble over what the LORD of Hosts has planned against it.
In that day five cities in the land of Egypt will speak the language of Canaan and swear allegiance to the LORD of Hosts. One of them will be called the City of the Sun.
In that day there will be an altar to the LORD in the center of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the LORD near her border.
It will be a sign and a witness to the LORD of Hosts in the land of Egypt. When they cry out to the LORD because of their oppressors, He will send them a savior and defender to rescue them.
The LORD will make Himself known to Egypt, and on that day Egypt will acknowledge the LORD. They will worship with sacrifices and offerings; they will make vows to the LORD and fulfill them.
And the LORD will strike Egypt with a plague; He will strike them but heal them. They will turn to the LORD, and He will hear their prayers and heal them.
In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria. The Assyrians will go to Egypt, and the Egyptians to Assyria. The Egyptians and Assyrians will worship together.
In that day Israel will join a three-party alliance with Egypt and Assyria— a blessing upon the earth.
The LORD of Hosts will bless them, saying, “Blessed be Egypt My people, Assyria My handiwork, and Israel My inheritance.”
