“Woe to the rebellious children,”
They set out to go down to Egypt
But Pharaoh’s protection will become your shame,
For though their princes are at Zoan
everyone will be put to shame
This is the burden against the beasts of the Negev:
Egypt’s help is futile and empty;
Go now, write it on a tablet in their presence
These are rebellious people, deceitful children,
They say to the seers,
Get out of the way; turn off the road.
Therefore this is what the Holy One of Israel says:
this iniquity of yours is like a breach about to fail,
It will break in pieces like a potter’s jar,
For the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel, has said:
“No,” you say, “we will flee on horses.”
A thousand will flee at the threat of one;
Therefore the LORD longs to be gracious to you;
O people in Zion who dwell in Jerusalem, you will weep no more. He will surely be gracious when you cry for help; when He hears, He will answer you.
The Lord will give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, but your Teacher will no longer hide Himself — with your own eyes you will see Him.
And whether you turn to the right or to the left, your ears will hear this command behind you: “This is the way. Walk in it.”
So you will desecrate your silver-plated idols and your gold-plated images. You will throw them away like menstrual cloths, saying to them, “Be gone!”
Then He will send rain for the seed that you have sown in the ground, and the food that comes from your land will be rich and plentiful. On that day your cattle will graze in open pastures.
The oxen and donkeys that work the ground will eat salted fodder, winnowed with shovel and pitchfork.
And from every high mountain and every raised hill, streams of water will flow in the day of great slaughter, when the towers fall.
The light of the moon will be as bright as the sun, and the light of the sun will be seven times brighter— like the light of seven days— on the day that the LORD binds up the brokenness of His people and heals the wounds He has inflicted.
Behold, the Name of the LORD comes from afar,
His breath is like a rushing torrent
You will sing
And the LORD will cause His majestic voice to be heard
For Assyria will be shattered at the voice of the LORD;
And with every stroke of the rod of punishment
For Topheth has long been prepared;
