“If a man divorces his wife
“Lift up your eyes to the barren heights and see.
Therefore the showers have been withheld,
Have you not just called to Me,
Will He be angry forever?
Now in the days of King Josiah, the LORD said to me, “Have you seen what faithless Israel has done? She has gone up on every high hill and under every green tree to prostitute herself there.
I thought that after she had done all these things, she would return to Me. But she did not return, and her unfaithful sister Judah saw it.
She saw
Indifferent to her own infidelity, Israel had defiled the land and committed adultery with stones and trees.
Yet in spite of all this, her unfaithful sister Judah did not return to Me with all her heart, but only in pretense,” declares the LORD.
And the LORD said to me, “Faithless Israel has shown herself more righteous than unfaithful Judah.
Go, proclaim this message toward the north:
Only acknowledge your guilt,
“Return, O faithless children,” declares the LORD,  “for I am your master, and I will take you — one from a city and two from a family — and bring you to Zion.
Then I will give you shepherds after My own heart, who will feed you with knowledge and understanding.”
“In those days, when you multiply and increase in the land,” declares the LORD, “they will no longer discuss the ark of the covenant of the LORD. It will never come to mind, and no one will remember it or miss it, nor will another one be made.
At that time they will call Jerusalem The Throne of the LORD, and all the nations will be gathered in Jerusalem to honor the name of the LORD. They will no longer follow the stubbornness of their evil hearts.
In those days the house of Judah will walk with the house of Israel, and they will come together from the land of the north to the land that I gave to your fathers as an inheritance.
Then I said, ‘How I long to make you My sons
But as a woman may betray her husband,
A voice is heard on the barren heights,
“Return, O faithless children,
Surely deception comes from the hills,
From our youth, that shameful god
Let us lie down in our shame;
