“At that time,” declares the LORD, “I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be My people.”
This is what the LORD says:
The LORD appeared to us in the past, saying:
Again I will build you, and you will be rebuilt,
Again you will plant vineyards on the hills of Samaria;
For there will be a day when watchmen will call out
For this is what the LORD says:
Behold, I will bring them from the land of the north
They will come with weeping,
Hear, O nations, the word of the LORD,
For the LORD has ransomed Jacob
They will come and shout for joy on the heights of Zion;
Then the maidens will rejoice with dancing,
I will fill the souls of the priests abundantly,
This is what the LORD says:
This is what the LORD says:
So there is hope for your future,
I have surely heard Ephraim’s
After I returned, I repented;
Is not Ephraim a precious son to Me,
“Set up the road markers,
How long will you wander,
This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says: “When I restore them from captivity,
And Judah and all its cities will dwell together in the land, the farmers and those who move with the flocks,
for I will refresh the weary soul and replenish all who are weak.”
At this I awoke and looked around. My sleep had been most pleasant to me.
“The days are coming,” declares the LORD, “when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and of beast.
Just as I watched over them to uproot and tear down, to demolish, destroy, and bring disaster, so I will watch over them to build and to plant,” declares the LORD.
“In those days, it will no longer be said:
Instead, each will die for his own iniquity. If anyone eats the sour grapes, his own teeth will be set on edge.
Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD,
It will not be like the covenant
“But this is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel
No longer will each man teach his neighbor or his brother,
Thus says the LORD, who gives the sun for light by day, who sets in order the moon and stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar — the LORD of Hosts is His name:
“Only if this fixed order departed from My presence,
This is what the LORD says:
“The days are coming,”
The measuring line will once again stretch out straight to the hill of Gareb and then turn toward Goah.
The whole valley of the dead bodies and ashes, and all the fields as far as the Kidron Valley, to the corner of the Horse Gate to the east, will be holy to the LORD. It will never again be uprooted or demolished.”
