This is what the LORD said to me: “Go and buy yourself a linen loincloth and put it around your waist, but do not let it touch water.”
So I bought a loincloth in accordance with the word of the LORD, and I put it around my waist.
Then the word of the LORD came to me a second time:
“Take the loincloth that you bought and are wearing, and go at once to Perath
So I went and hid it at Perath, as the LORD had commanded me.
Many days later the LORD said to me, “Arise, go to Perath, and get the loincloth that I commanded you to hide there.”
So I went to Perath and dug up the loincloth, and I took it from the place where I had hidden it. But now it was ruined— of no use at all.
Then the word of the LORD came to me:
“This is what the LORD says: In the same way I will ruin the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem.
These evil people, who refuse to listen to My words, who follow the stubbornness of their own hearts, and who go after other gods to serve and worship them, they will be like this loincloth — of no use at all.
For just as a loincloth clings to a man’s waist, so I have made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling to Me, declares the LORD, so that they might be My people for My renown and praise and glory. But they did not listen.
Therefore you are to tell them that this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: ‘Every wineskin shall be filled with wine.’
then you are to tell them that this is what the LORD says: ‘I am going to fill with drunkenness all who live in this land— the kings who sit on David’s throne, the priests, the prophets, and all the people of Jerusalem.
I will smash them against one another, fathers and sons alike, declares the LORD. I will allow no mercy or pity or compassion to keep Me from destroying them.’”
Listen and give heed. Do not be arrogant,
Give glory to the LORD your God
But if you do not listen,
Say to the king
The cities of the Negev have been shut tight,
Lift up your eyes and see
What will you say when He sets over you
And if you ask yourself,
Can the Ethiopian
“I will scatter you like chaff
This is your lot,
So I will pull your skirts up over your face,
Your adulteries and lustful neighings,
