This is what the LORD says:
I will send strangers to Babylon
Do not let the archer bend his bow
And they will fall slain in the land of the Chaldeans,
For Israel and Judah have not been abandoned
Flee from Babylon! Escape with your lives!
Babylon was a gold cup in the hand of the LORD,
Suddenly Babylon has fallen and been shattered.
“We tried to heal Babylon,
“The LORD has brought forth our vindication;
Sharpen the arrows!
Raise a banner against the walls of Babylon;
You who dwell by many waters,
The LORD of Hosts has sworn by Himself:
The LORD made the earth by His power;
When He thunders,
Every man is senseless and devoid of knowledge;
They are worthless, a work to be mocked.
The Portion of Jacob is not like these,
“You are My war club,
With you I shatter the horse and rider;
With you I shatter man and woman;
With you I shatter the shepherd and his flock;
Before your very eyes I will repay
“Behold, I am against you,
No one shall retrieve from you a cornerstone
“Raise a banner in the land!
Prepare the nations for battle against her —
The earth quakes and writhes
The warriors of Babylon have stopped fighting;
One courier races to meet another,
The fords have been seized,
For this is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says:
“Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has devoured me;
May the violence done to me
Therefore this is what the LORD says:
Babylon will become a heap of rubble,
They will roar together like young lions;
While they are flushed with heat,
I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter,
How Sheshach
The sea has come up over Babylon;
Her cities have become a desolation,
I will punish Bel in Babylon.
Come out of her, My people!
Do not let your heart grow faint,
Therefore, behold, the days are coming
Then heaven and earth and all that is in them
“Babylon must fall
You who have escaped the sword,
“We are ashamed because we have heard reproach;
“Therefore, behold, the days are coming,”
Even if Babylon ascends to the heavens
“The sound of a cry
For the LORD will destroy Babylon;
For a destroyer is coming against her —
I will make her princes and wise men drunk,
This is what the LORD of Hosts says:
This is the message that Jeremiah the prophet gave to the quartermaster Seraiah son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went to Babylon with King Zedekiah of Judah in the fourth year of Zedekiah’s reign.
Jeremiah had written on a single scroll about all the disaster that would come upon Babylon — all these words that had been written concerning Babylon.
And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, “When you get to Babylon, see that you read all these words aloud,
and say, ‘O LORD, You have promised to cut off this place so that no one will remain — neither man nor beast. Indeed, it will be desolate forever.’
When you finish reading this scroll, tie a stone to it and cast it into the Euphrates.
Then you are to say, ‘In the same way Babylon will sink and never rise again, because of the disaster I will bring upon her. And her people will grow weary.’”
