This is what the LORD says: “Go down to the palace of the king of Judah and proclaim this message there,
saying, ‘Hear the word of the LORD, O king of Judah, who sits on the throne of David— you and your officials and your people who enter these gates.
This is what the LORD says: Administer justice and righteousness. Rescue the victim of robbery from the hand of his oppressor. Do no wrong or violence to the foreigner, the fatherless, or the widow. Do not shed innocent blood in this place.
For if you will indeed carry out these commands, then kings who sit on David’s throne will enter through the gates of this palace riding on chariots and horses — they and their officials and their people.
But if you do not obey these words, then I swear by Myself, declares the LORD, that this house will become a pile of rubble.’”
For this is what the LORD says concerning the house of the king of Judah:
I will appoint destroyers against you,
And many nations will pass by this city and ask one another, ‘Why has the LORD done such a thing to this great city?’
Then people will reply, ‘Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD their God and have worshiped and served other gods.’”
Do not weep for him who is dead;
For this is what the LORD says concerning Shallum
but he will die in the place to which he was exiled; he will never see this land again.”
“Woe to him who builds his palace by unrighteousness,
who says, ‘I will build myself a great palace,
Does it make you a king to excel
He took up the cause of the poor and needy,
“But your eyes and heart are set on nothing
Therefore this is what the LORD says concerning Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah:
He will be buried like a donkey,
Go up to Lebanon and cry out;
I warned you when you were secure.
The wind will drive away all your shepherds,
O inhabitant of Lebanon,
“As surely as I live,” declares the LORD, “evenif you, Coniah
In fact, I will hand you over to those you dread, who want to take your life — to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and to the Chaldeans.
I will hurl you and the mother who gave you birth into another land, where neither of you were born — and there you both will die.
You will never return to the land for which you long.”
Is this man Coniah a despised and shattered pot,
O land, land, land,
This is what the LORD says:
