Some time later there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now there is in Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate a pool with five covered colonnades, which in Hebrew
On these  walkways
One man there had been an invalid for thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying there and realized that he had spent a long time in this condition, He asked him,
“Sir,” the invalid replied, “I have no one to help me into the pool when the water is stirred. While I am on my way, someone else goes in before me.”
Then Jesus told him,
Immediately the man was made well, and he picked up his mat and began to walk.
so the Jews said to the man who had been healed, “This is the Sabbath! It is unlawful for you to carry your mat.”
But he answered, “The man who made me well told me,
“Who is this man who told you to pick it up and walk?” they asked.
But the man who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away while the crowd was there.
Afterward, Jesus found the man at the temple and said to him,
And the man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well.
Now because Jesus was doing these things on the Sabbath, the Jews began to persecute Him.
But Jesus answered them,
Because of this, the Jews tried all the harder to kill Him. Not only was He breaking the Sabbath, but He was even calling God His own Father, making Himself equal with God.
So Jesus replied,
The Father loves the Son and shows Him all He does. And to your amazement, He will show Him even greater works than these.
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He wishes.
so that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
For as the Father has life in Himself, so also He has granted the Son to have life in Himself.
And He has given Him authority to execute judgment, because He is the Son of Man.
and come out — those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.
There is another who testifies about Me, and I know that His testimony about Me is valid.
Even though I do not accept human testimony, I say these things so that you may be saved.
But I have testimony more substantial than that of John. For the works that the Father has given Me to accomplish — the very works I am doing — testify about Me that the Father has sent Me.
And the Father who sent Me has Himself testified about Me. You have never heard His voice nor seen His form,
nor does His word abide in you, because you do not believe the One He sent.
yet you refuse to come to Me to have life.
but I know you, that you do not have the love of God within you.
I have come in My Father’s name, and you have not received Me; but if someone else comes in his own name, you will receive him.
How can you believe if you accept glory from one another, yet do not seek the glory that comes from the only God?
If you had believed Moses, you would believe Me, because he wrote about Me.
But since you do not believe what he wrote, how will you believe what I say?”
