It was now just before the Passover Feast, and Jesus knew that His hour had come to leave this world and return to the Father. Having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the very end.
The evening meal was underway, and the devil had already put into the heart of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, to betray Jesus.
Jesus knew that the Father had delivered all things into His hands, and that He had come from God and was returning to God.
So He got up from the supper, laid aside His outer garments, and wrapped a towel around His waist.
After that, He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet and dry them with the towel that was around Him.
He came to Simon Peter, who asked Him, “Lord, are You going to wash my feet?”
Jesus replied,
“Never shall You wash my feet!” Peter told Him.
“Then, Lord,” Simon Peter replied, “not only my feet, but my hands and my head as well!”
Jesus told him,
For He knew who would betray Him. That is why He said,
When Jesus had washed their feet and put on His outer garments, He reclined with them again and asked,
You call Me Teacher and Lord, and rightly so, because I am.
So if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also should wash one another’s feet.
I have set you an example so that you should do as I have done for you.
Truly, truly, I tell you, no servant is greater than his master,
If you know these things, you will be blessed if you do them.
I am telling you now before it happens, so that when it comes to pass, you will believe that I am He.
Truly, truly, I tell you, whoever receives the one I send receives Me, and whoever receives Me receives the One who sent Me.”
After Jesus had said this, He became troubled in spirit and testified,
The disciples looked at one another, perplexed as to which of them He meant.
One of His disciples, the one whom Jesus loved, was reclining at His side.
So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus which one He was talking about.
Leaning back against Jesus, he asked, “Lord, who is it?”
Jesus answered,
And when Judas had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him.
But no one at the table knew why Jesus had said this to him.
Since Judas kept the money bag, some thought that Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the feast, or to give something to the poor.
As soon as he had received the morsel, Judas went out into the night.
When Judas had gone out, Jesus said,
If God is glorified in Him,
By this everyone will know that you are My disciples, if you love one another.”
“Lord, where are You going?” Simon Peter asked.
“Lord,” said Peter, “why can’t I follow You now? I will lay down my life for You.”
“Will you lay down your life for Me?”
