After this, Jesus crossed to the other side of the Sea of Galilee ( that is, the Sea of Tiberias ).
A large crowd followed Him because they saw the signs He was performing on the sick.
Then Jesus went up on the mountain and sat down with His disciples.
Now the Jewish Feast of the Passover was near.
When Jesus looked up and saw a large crowd coming toward Him, He said to Philip,
But He was asking this to test him, for He knew what He was about to do.
Philip answered, “Two hundred denarii
One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to Him,
“Here is a boy with five barley loaves and two small fish. But what  difference will these make among so many?”
“Have the people sit down,”
Then Jesus took the loaves and the fish, gave thanks, and distributed to those who were seated as much as they wanted.
And when everyone was full, He said to His disciples,
So they collected them and filled twelve baskets with the pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten.
When the people saw the sign that Jesus had performed,
Then Jesus, realizing that they were about to come and make Him king by force, withdrew again to a mountain by Himself.
When evening came, His disciples went down to the sea,
got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was already dark, and Jesus had not yet gone out to them.
A strong wind was blowing, and the sea grew agitated.
When they had rowed about three or four miles,
But Jesus spoke up:
Then they were willing to take Him into the boat, and at once the boat reached the shore where they were heading.
The next day, the crowd that had remained on the other side of the sea realized that only one boat had been there, and that Jesus had not boarded it with His disciples, but they had gone away alone.
However, some boats from Tiberias landed near the place where the people had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
So when the crowd saw that neither Jesus nor His disciples were there, they got into the boats and went to Capernaum to look for Him.
When they found Him on the other side of the sea, they asked Him, “Rabbi, when did You get here?”
Jesus replied,
Do not work for food that perishes, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For on Him God the Father has placed His seal of approval.”
Then they inquired, “What must we do to perform the works of God?”
Jesus replied,
So they asked Him, “What sign then will You perform, so that we may see it and believe You? What will You do?
Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written: ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’
Jesus said to them,
For the bread of God is He who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.”
“Sir,” they said, “give us this bread at all times.”
Jesus answered,
But as I stated, you have seen Me and still you do not believe.
For I have come down from heaven, not to do My own will, but to do the will of Him who sent Me.
For it is My Father’s will that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in Him shall have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.”
At this, the Jews began to grumble about Jesus because He had said,
They were asking, “Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then can He say,
“Stop grumbling among yourselves,”
“No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day.
It is written in the Prophets: ‘And they will all be taught by God.’
not that anyone has seen the Father except the One who is from God; only He has seen the Father.
I am the bread of life.
Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, yet they died.
This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that anyone may eat of it and not die.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And this bread, which I will give for the life of the world, is My flesh.”
At this, the Jews began to argue among themselves, “How can this man give us His flesh to eat?”
So Jesus said to them,
Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
For My flesh is real food, and My blood is real drink.
Just as the living Father sent Me and I live because of the Father, so also the one who feeds on Me will live because of Me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven. Unlike your fathers, who ate  the manna and died, the one who eats this bread will live forever.”
Jesus said this while teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum.
On hearing it, many of His disciples said, “This is a difficult teaching. Who can accept it?”
Aware that His disciples were grumbling about this  teaching, Jesus asked them,
Then what  will happen  if you see the Son of Man ascend to where He was before?
The Spirit gives life; the flesh profits nothing. The words I have spoken to you are spirit and they are life.
However, there are some of you who do not believe.”
Then Jesus said,
From that time on many of His disciples turned back and no longer walked with Him.
So Jesus asked the Twelve,
Simon Peter replied, “Lord, to whom would we go? You have the words of eternal life.
We believe and know that You are the Holy One of God.
Jesus answered them,
He was speaking about Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. For although Judas was one of the Twelve, he was later to betray Jesus.
