Later, by the Sea of Tiberias,
Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus,
Simon Peter told them, “I am going fishing.”
Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not recognize that it was Jesus.
So He called out to them,
He told them,
Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” As soon as Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment (for he had removed it . . . ) and jumped into the sea.
The other disciples came ashore in the boat. They dragged in the net full of fish, for they were not far from land, only about a hundred yards.
When they landed, they saw a charcoal fire there with fish on it, and some bread.
Jesus told them,
So Simon Peter went aboard and dragged the net ashore. It was full of large fish, 153, but even with so many, the net was not torn.
“Come, have breakfast,”
Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and He did the same with the fish.
This was now the third time that Jesus appeared to the disciples after He was raised from the dead.
When they had finished eating, Jesus asked Simon Peter,
Jesus asked a second time,
Jesus asked a third time,
Truly, truly, I tell you, when you were young, you dressed yourself and walked where you wanted; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and someone else
Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God.
Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them. He was the one who had leaned back against Jesus
When Peter saw him, he asked, “Lord, what about him?”
Jesus answered,
Because of this, the rumor spread among the brothers that this disciple would not die. However, Jesus did not say that he would not die, but only,
This is the disciple who testifies to these things and who has written them down. And we know that his testimony is true.
There are many more things that Jesus did. If all of them were written down, I suppose that not even the world itself would have space for the books that would be written.
