Early on the first day of the week,
So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved. “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb,” she said, “and we do not know where they have put Him!”
Then Peter and the other disciple set out for the tomb.
The two were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first.
He bent down and looked in at the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.
Simon Peter arrived just after him. He entered the tomb and saw the linen cloths lying there.
The cloth
Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in. And he saw and believed.
For they still did not understand from the Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead.
Then the disciples returned to their homes.
But Mary stood outside the tomb weeping. And as she wept, she bent down to look into the tomb,
and she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and the other at the feet.
“Woman, why are you weeping?” they asked.
When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there. But she did not recognize that it was Jesus.
“Woman, why are you weeping?”
Jesus said to her,
“Do not cling to Me,”
Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, “I have seen the Lord!” And she told them what He had said to her.
It was the first day of the week, and that very evening, while the disciples were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them.
After He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side.
Again Jesus said to them,
When He had said this, He breathed on them and said,
If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven; if you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is withheld.”
Now Thomas called Didymus,
So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord!”
Eight days later, His disciples were once again inside with the doors locked, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came and stood among them and said,
Then Jesus said to Thomas,
Thomas replied, “My Lord and my God!”
Jesus said to him,
Jesus performed many other signs in the presence of His disciples, which are not written in this book.
But these are written so that you may believe
