Then Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through.
And there was a man named Zacchaeus, a chief tax collector, who was very wealthy.
He was trying to see who Jesus was, but could not see over the crowd because he was small in stature.
So he ran on ahead and climbed a sycamore tree to see Him, since Jesus was about to pass that way.
When Jesus came to that place, He looked up and said,
So Zacchaeus hurried down and welcomed Him joyfully.
And all who saw this began to grumble, saying, “He has gone to be the guest of a sinful man!”
But Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord, “Look, Lord, half of my possessions I give to the poor, and if I have cheated anyone, I will repay it fourfold.”
Jesus said to him,
For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.”
While the people were listening to this, Jesus proceeded to tell them a parable, because He was near Jerusalem and they thought the kingdom of God would appear imminently.
So He said,
Beforehand, he called ten of his servants and gave them ten minas.
For I was afraid of you, because you are a harsh man. You withdraw what you did not deposit and reap what you did not sow.’
Why then did you not deposit my money in the bank, and upon my return I could have collected it with interest?’
And these enemies of mine who were unwilling for me to rule over them, bring them here and slay them in front of me.’”
After Jesus had said this, He went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
As He approached Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, He sent out two of His disciples,
saying,
If anyone asks, ‘Why are you untying it?’ tell him, ‘The Lord needs it.’”
So those who were sent went out and found it just as Jesus had told them.
As they were untying the colt, its owners asked, “Why are you untying the colt?”
“The Lord needs it,” they answered.
Then they led the colt to Jesus, threw their cloaks over it, and put Jesus on it.
As He rode along,  the people  spread their cloaks on the road.
And as He approached the descent from the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of disciples began to praise God joyfully in a loud voice for all the miracles they had seen:
“Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord!”
But some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, rebuke Your disciples!”
“I tell you,”
As Jesus approached Jerusalem and saw the city, He wept over it
and said,
For the days will come upon you when your enemies will barricade you and surround you and hem you in on every side.
They will level you to the ground — you and the children within your walls. They will not leave one stone on another, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation from God.
Then Jesus entered the temple courts
He declared to them,
Jesus was teaching at the temple every day, but the chief priests, scribes, and leaders of the people were intent on killing Him.
Yet they could not find a way to do so, because all the people hung on His words.
