In the meantime, a crowd of many thousands had gathered, so that they were trampling one another. Jesus began to speak first to His disciples:
There is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed, and nothing hidden that will not be made known.
What you have spoken in the dark will be heard in the daylight, and what you have whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed from the housetops.
But I will show you whom you should fear: Fear the One who, after you have been killed, has authority to throw you into hell.
And even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So do not be afraid; you are worth more than many sparrows.
But whoever denies Me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
For at that time the Holy Spirit will teach you what you should say.”
Someone in the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”
But Jesus replied,
And He said to them,
Then He told them a parable:
So he thought to himself, ‘What shall I do, since I have nowhere to store my crops?’
Then he said, ‘This is what I will do: I will tear down my barns and will build bigger ones, and there I will store up all my grain and my goods.
Then I will say to myself, “You have plenty of good things laid up for many years. Take it easy. Eat, drink, and be merry!”’
Then Jesus said to His disciples,
For life is more than food, and the body more than clothes.
Consider the ravens: They do not sow or reap, they have no storehouse or barn; yet God feeds them. How much more valuable you are than the birds!
So if you cannot do such a small thing, why do you worry about the rest?
If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, how much more will He clothe you, O you of little faith!
For the Gentiles of the world strive after all these things, and your Father knows that you need them.
But seek His
Sell your possessions and give to the poor. Provide yourselves with purses that will not wear out, an inexhaustible treasure in heaven, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Then you  will be  like servants waiting for their master to return from the wedding banquet, so that when he comes and knocks, they can open the door for him at once.
Blessed are those servants whom the master finds on watch when he returns. Truly I tell you, he will dress himself to serve and will have them recline at the table, and he himself will come and wait on them.
Even if he comes in the second or third watch of the night
You also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour you do not expect.”
“Lord,” said Peter, “are You addressing this parable to us, or to everyone else as well?”
And the Lord answered,
Blessed is that servant whose master finds him doing so when he returns.
Truly I tell you, he will put him in charge of all his possessions.
The master of that servant will come on a day he does not expect and at an hour he does not anticipate. Then he will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the unbelievers.
But the one who unknowingly does things worthy of punishment will be beaten with few blows. From everyone who has been given much, much will be required; and from him who has been entrusted with much, even more will be demanded.
But I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
From now on, five in one household will be divided, three against two and two against three.
They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.
Then Jesus said to the crowds,
And when the south wind blows, you say, ‘It will be hot,’ and it is.
You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and sky. Why don’t you know how to interpret the present time?
Make every effort to reconcile with your adversary while you are on your way to the magistrate. Otherwise, he may drag you off to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and the officer may throw you into prison.
I tell you, you will not get out until you have paid the very last penny.
