One Sabbath, Jesus went to eat in the home of a leading Pharisee, and those in attendance were watching Him closely.
Right there before Him was a man with dropsy.
So Jesus asked the experts in the law and the Pharisees,
But they remained silent.
And He asked them,
And they were unable to answer these  questions.
When Jesus noticed how the guests chose the places of honor, He told them a parable:
“When you are invited to a wedding banquet, do not sit in the place of honor, in case someone more distinguished than you has been invited.
Then the host who invited both of you will come and tell you, ‘Give this man your seat.’ And in humiliation, you will have to take the last place.
For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
Then Jesus said to the man who had invited Him,
But when you host a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind,
and you will be blessed. Since they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”
When one of those reclining with Him heard this, he said to Jesus, “Blessed is everyone who will eat at the feast
But Jesus replied,
When it was time for the banquet, he sent his servant to tell those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is now ready.’
For I tell you, not one of those men who were invited will taste my banquet.’”
Now large crowds were traveling with Jesus, and He turned and said to them,
“If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters — yes, even his own life — he cannot be My disciple.
And whoever does not carry his cross and follow Me cannot be My disciple.
Otherwise, if he lays the foundation and is unable to finish the work, everyone who sees it will ridicule him,
saying, ‘This man could not finish what he started to build.’
And if he is unable, he will send a delegation while the other king is still far off, to ask for terms of peace.
It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure pile, and it is thrown out.
