Soon afterward, Jesus traveled from one town and village to another, preaching and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom of God. The Twelve were with Him,
as well as some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
Joanna the wife of Herod’s household manager Chuza, Susanna, and many others. These women were ministering to them
While a large crowd was gathering and people were coming to Jesus from town after town, He told them this parable:
“A farmer went out to sow his seed. And as he was sowing, some seed fell along the path, where it was trampled, and the birds of the air devoured it.
Then His disciples asked Him what this parable meant.
He replied,
The  seeds
For there is nothing hidden that will not be disclosed, and nothing concealed that will not be made known and brought to light.
Then Jesus’ mother and brothers came to see Him, but they were unable to reach Him because of the crowd.
He was told, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to see You.”
But He replied,
One day Jesus said to His disciples,
As they sailed, He fell asleep, and a windstorm came down on the lake, so that the boat was being swamped, and they were in great danger.
The disciples went and woke Him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!”
“Where is your faith?”
Then they sailed to the region of the Gerasenes,
When Jesus stepped ashore, He was met by a demon-possessed man from the town. For a long time this man had not worn clothing or lived in a house, but he stayed in the tombs.
When the man saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before Him, shouting in a loud voice, “What do You want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg You not to torture me!”
For Jesus had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. Many times it had seized him, and though he was bound with chains and shackles, he had broken the chains and been driven by the demon into solitary places.
“What is your name?”
And the demons kept begging Jesus not to order them to go into the Abyss.
There on the hillside a large herd of pigs was feeding. So the demons begged Jesus to let them enter the pigs, and He gave them permission.
Then the demons came out of the man and went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned.
When those tending the pigs saw what had happened, they ran off and reported this in the town and countryside.
So the people went out to see what had happened. They came to Jesus and found the man whom the demons had left, sitting at Jesus’ feet, clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
Meanwhile, those who had seen it reported how the demon-possessed man had been healed.
Then all the people of the region of the Gerasenes asked Jesus to depart from them, because great fear had taken hold of them. So He got into the boat and started back.
The man whom the demons had left begged to go with Jesus. But He sent him away, saying,
“Return home and describe how much God has done for you.”
When Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed Him, for they had all been waiting for Him.
Just then a synagogue leader named Jairus came and fell at Jesus’ feet. He begged Him to come to his house,
because his only daughter, who was about twelve, was dying.
including a woman who had suffered from bleeding for twelve years. She had spent all her money on physicians,
She came up behind Jesus and touched the fringe of His cloak, and immediately her bleeding stopped.
“Who touched Me?”
But Jesus declared,
Then the woman, seeing that she could not escape notice, came trembling and fell down before Him. In the presence of all the people, she explained why she had touched Him and how she had immediately been healed.
“Daughter,”
While He was still speaking, someone arrived from the house of the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” he told Jairus. “Do not bother the Teacher anymore.”
But Jesus overheard them and said to Jairus,
When He entered the house, He did not allow anyone to go in with Him except Peter, John, James, and the child’s father and mother.
Meanwhile, everyone was weeping and mourning for her. But Jesus said,
And they laughed at Him, knowing that she was dead.
But Jesus took her by the hand and called out,
Her spirit returned, and at once she got up. And He directed that she be given something to eat.
Her parents were astounded, but Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened.
