One Sabbath
But some of the Pharisees asked, “Why are you doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”
Jesus replied,
He entered the house of God, took the consecrated bread
Then Jesus declared,
On another Sabbath Jesus entered the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was withered.
Looking for a reason to accuse Jesus, the scribes and Pharisees were watching Him closely to see if He would heal on the Sabbath.
But Jesus knew their thoughts and said to the man with the withered hand,
Then Jesus said to them,
And after looking around at all of them, He said to the man,
But the scribes and Pharisees were filled with rage and began to discuss with one another what they might do to Jesus.
In those days Jesus went out to the mountain to pray, and He spent the night in prayer to God.
When daylight came, He called His disciples to Him and chose twelve of them, whom He also designated as apostles:
Simon, whom He named Peter, and his brother Andrew; James and John; Philip and Bartholomew;
Matthew and Thomas; James son of Alphaeus and Simon called the Zealot;
Judas son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
Then Jesus came down with them and stood on a level place. A large crowd of His disciples was there, along with a great number of people from all over Judea, Jerusalem, and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon.
They had come to hear Him and to be healed of their diseases, and those troubled by unclean spirits were healed.
The entire crowd was trying to touch Him, because power was coming from Him and healing them all.
Looking up at His disciples, Jesus said:
Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, because great is your reward in heaven. For their fathers treated the prophets in the same way.
bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you.
If someone strikes you on one cheek, turn to him the other also. And if someone takes your cloak, do not withhold your tunic as well.
Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what is yours, do not demand it back.
Do to others as you would have them do to you.
If you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do the same.
And if you lend to those from whom you expect repayment, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full.
Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.
Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you.”
Jesus also told them a parable:
A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who is fully trained will be like his teacher.
How can you say, ‘Brother,
For each tree is known by its own fruit. Indeed, figs are not gathered from thornbushes, nor grapes from brambles.
The good man brings good things out of the good treasure of his heart, and the evil man brings evil things out of the evil treasure of his heart. For out of the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks.
I will show you what he is like who comes to Me and hears My words and acts on them:
He is like a man building a house, who dug down deep and laid his foundation on the rock. When the flood came, the torrent crashed against that house but could not shake it, because it was well built.
