One day in a place where Jesus had just finished praying, one of His disciples requested, “Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples.”
So Jesus told them,
Then Jesus said to them,
because a friend of mine has come to me on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him.’
For everyone who asks receives; he who seeks finds; and to him who knocks, the door will be opened.
Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?
So if you who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!”
One day Jesus was driving out a demon that was mute. And when the demon was gone, the man who had been mute spoke. The crowds were amazed,
but some of them said, “It is by Beelzebul,
And others tested Him by demanding a sign from heaven.
Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them,
If Satan is divided against himself, how can his kingdom stand? After all, you say that I drive out demons by Beelzebul.
And if I drive out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons drive them out? So then, they will be your judges.
But if I drive out demons by the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
But when someone stronger attacks and overpowers him, he takes away the armor in which the man trusted, and then he divides up his plunder.
On its return, it finds the house swept clean and put in order.
Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and dwell there. And the final plight of that man is worse than the first.”
As Jesus was saying these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said, “Blessed is the womb that bore You, and blessed are the breasts that nursed You!”
But He replied,
As the crowds were increasing, Jesus said,
For as Jonah was a sign to the Ninevites, so the Son of Man will be a sign to this generation.
The men of Nineveh will stand at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and now One greater than Jonah is here.
Be careful, then, that the light within you is not darkness.
So if your whole body is full of light, with no part of it in darkness, you will be radiant, as though a lamp were shining on you.”
As Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee invited Him to dine with him; so He went in and reclined at the table.
But the Pharisee was surprised to see that Jesus did not first wash before the meal.
Then the Lord said,
You fools! Did not the One who made the outside make the inside as well?
But give as alms the things that are within you, and behold, everything will be clean for you.
Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, which men walk over without even noticing.”
One of the experts in the law told Him, “Teacher, when You say these things, You insult us as well.”
“Woe to you as well, experts in the law!”
So you are witnesses consenting to the deeds of your fathers: They killed the prophets, and you build their tombs.
Because of this, the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles; some of them they will kill and others they will persecute.’
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the sanctuary.
As Jesus went on from there, the scribes and Pharisees began to oppose Him bitterly and to ply Him with questions about many things,
waiting to catch Him in something He might say.
