After this, the Lord appointed seventy-two
And He told them,
Carry no purse or bag or sandals. Do not greet anyone along the road.
If a man of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; if not, it will return to you.
Stay at the same house, eating and drinking whatever you are offered. For the worker is worthy of his wages.
Heal the sick who are there and tell them, ‘The kingdom of God is near you.’
‘Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet, we wipe off as a testimony against you. Yet be sure of this: The kingdom of God is near.’
I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town.
But it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you.
The seventy-two returned with joy and said, “Lord, even the demons submit to us in Your name.”
So He told them,
Behold, I have given you authority to tread on snakes and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. Nothing will harm you.
Nevertheless, do not rejoice that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.”
At that time Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and declared,
Then Jesus turned to the disciples and said privately,
For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see but did not see it, and to hear what you hear but did not hear it.”
One day an expert in the law stood up to test Him. “Teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to inherit eternal life?”
“What is written in the Law?”
He answered, “‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind’
“You have answered correctly,”
But wanting to justify himself, he asked Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”
Jesus took up this question and said,
He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
“The one who showed him mercy,” replied the expert in the law.
As they traveled along, Jesus entered a village where a woman named Martha welcomed Him into her home.
She had a sister named Mary, who sat at the Lord’s feet listening to His message.
But Martha was distracted by all the preparations to be made. She came to Jesus and said, “Lord, do You not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her to help me!”
“Martha, Martha,”
But only one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, and it will not be taken away from her.”
