And calling His twelve disciples to Him, Jesus gave them authority over unclean spirits, so that they could drive them out and heal every disease and sickness.
These are the names of the twelve apostles: first Simon, called Peter, and his brother Andrew; James son of Zebedee, and his brother John;
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
Simon the Zealot,
These twelve Jesus sent out with the following instructions:
Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel.
As you go, preach this message: ‘The kingdom of heaven is near.’
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers,
Take no bag for the road, or second tunic, or sandals, or staff; for the worker is worthy of his provisions.
As you enter the home, greet its occupants.
If the home is worthy, let your peace rest on it, but if it is not, let your peace return to you.
And if anyone will not welcome you or heed your words, shake the dust off your feet when you leave that home or town.
Truly I tell you, it will be more bearable for Sodom and Gomorrah on the day of judgment than for that town.
But beware of men, for they will hand you over to their councils and flog you in their synagogues.
On My account you will be brought before governors and kings as witnesses to them and to the Gentiles.
But when they hand you over, do not worry about how to respond or what to say. In that hour you will be given what to say.
For it will not be you speaking, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
You will be hated by everyone because of My name, but the one who perseveres to the end will be saved.
It is enough for a disciple to be like his teacher, and a servant like his master. If the head of the house has been called Beelzebul,
What I tell you in the dark, speak in the daylight; what is whispered in your ear, proclaim from the housetops.
And even the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
So do not be afraid; you are worth more than many sparrows.
But whoever denies Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father in heaven.
For I have come to turn
and anyone who does not take up his cross and follow Me is not worthy of Me.
Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for My sake will find it.
Whoever receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward, and whoever receives a righteous man because he is a righteous man will receive a righteous man’s reward.
And if anyone gives even a cup of cold water to one of these little ones because he is My disciple, truly I tell you, he will never lose his reward.”
