As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent out two disciples,
saying to them,
If anyone questions you, tell him that the Lord needs them, and he will send them right away.”
This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet:
“Say to the Daughter of Zion,
So the disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them.
They brought the donkey and the colt and laid their cloaks on them, and Jesus sat on them.
A massive crowd spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.
The crowds that went ahead of Him and those that followed were shouting:
When Jesus had entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, “Who is this?”
The crowds replied, “This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee.”
Then Jesus entered the temple courts
And He declared to them,
The blind and the lame came to Him at the temple, and He healed them.
But the chief priests and scribes were indignant when they saw the wonders He performed and the children shouting in the temple courts, “Hosanna to the Son of David!”
“Do You hear what these children are saying?” they asked.
Then He left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where He spent the night.
In the morning, as Jesus was returning to the city, He was hungry.
Seeing a fig tree by the road, He went up to it but found nothing on it except leaves.
When the disciples saw this, they marveled and asked, “How did the fig tree wither so quickly?”
“Truly I tell you,”
If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer.”
When Jesus returned to the temple courts and began to teach, the chief priests and elders of the people came up to Him. “By what authority are You doing these things?” they asked. “And who gave You this authority?”
“I will also ask you one question,”
What was the source of John’s baptism? Was it from heaven or from men?”
But if we say, ‘From men,’ we are afraid of the people, for they all regard John as a prophet.”
So they answered, “We do not know.”
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and prostitutes did. And even after you saw this, you did not repent and believe him.
But the tenants seized his servants. They beat one, killed another, and stoned a third.
So they seized him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
“He will bring those wretches to a wretched end,” they replied, “and will rent out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him his share of the fruit at harvest time.”
Jesus said to them,
He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but he on whom it falls will be crushed.
When the chief priests and Pharisees heard His parables, they knew that Jesus was speaking about them.
Although they wanted to arrest Him, they were afraid of the crowds, because the people regarded Him as a prophet.
