Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to His disciples:
“The scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat.
So practice and observe everything they tell you. But do not do what they do, for they do not practice what they preach.
They tie up heavy, burdensome loads
They love the places of honor at banquets, the chief seats in the synagogues,
the greetings in the marketplaces, and the title of ‘Rabbi’ by which they are addressed.
And do not call anyone on earth your father, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.
Nor are you to be called instructors, for you have one Instructor, the Christ.
The greatest among you shall be your servant.
For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
You blind fools! Which is greater: the gold, or the temple that makes it sacred?
And you say, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it means nothing; but if anyone swears by the gift on it, he is bound by his oath.’
You blind men! Which is greater: the gift, or the altar that makes it sacred?
So then, he who swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it.
And he who swears by the temple swears by it and by the One who dwells in it.
And he who swears by heaven swears by God’s throne and by the One who sits on it.
You blind guides! You strain out a gnat but swallow a camel.
Blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and dish,
In the same way, on the outside you appear to be righteous, but on the inside you are full of hypocrisy and wickedness.
And you say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partners with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’
So you testify against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets.
Fill up, then,
You snakes! You brood of vipers! How will you escape the sentence of hell?
And so upon you will come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar.
Truly I tell you, all these things will come upon this generation.
Look, your house is left to you desolate.
For I tell you that you will not see Me again until you say, ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.’
