Then the Pharisees and Sadducees came and tested Jesus by asking Him to show them a sign from heaven.
But He replied,
and in the morning, ‘Today it will be stormy, for the sky is red and overcast.’ You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but not the signs of the times.
A wicked and adulterous generation demands a sign, but none will be given it except the sign of Jonah.”
When they crossed to the other side, the disciples forgot to take bread.
“Watch out!”
They discussed this among themselves and concluded, “It is because we did not bring any bread.”
Aware of their conversation, Jesus said,
Do you still not understand? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many basketfuls you gathered?
Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many basketfuls you gathered?
How do you not understand that I was not telling you about bread? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
Then they understood that He was not telling them to beware of the leaven used in bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, He questioned His disciples:
They replied, “Some say John the Baptist; others say Elijah; and still others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.”
“But what about you?”
Simon Peter answered, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.”
Jesus replied,
And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it.
I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.”
Then He admonished the disciples not to tell anyone that He was the Christ.
From that time on Jesus
Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him. “Far be it from You, Lord!” he said. “This shall never happen to You!”
But Jesus turned and said to Peter,
Then Jesus told His disciples,
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake will find it.
What will it profit a man if he gains the whole world, yet forfeits his soul? Or what can a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of Man will come in His Father’s glory with His angels, and then He will repay each one according to what he has done.
