Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
The foolish ones took their lamps but did not take along any extra oil.
But the wise ones took oil in flasks along with their lamps.
When the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and fell asleep.
The foolish ones said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil; our lamps are going out.’
To one he gave five talents,
The servant who had received the five talents went at once and put them to work
Likewise, the one with the two talents gained two more.
But the servant who had received the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground, and hid his master’s money.
The servant who had received the five talents came and presented five more. ‘Master,’ he said, ‘you entrusted me with five talents. See, I have gained five more.’
So I was afraid and went out and hid your talent in the ground. See, you have what belongs to you.’
Then you should have deposited my money with the bankers, and on my return I would have received it back with interest.
For everyone who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. But the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him.
And throw that worthless servant into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
All the nations will be gathered before Him, and He will separate the people one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
He will place the sheep on His right and the goats on His left.
For I was hungry and you gave Me something to eat, I was thirsty and you gave Me something to drink, I was a stranger and you took Me in,
I was naked and you clothed Me, I was sick and you looked after Me, I was in prison and you visited Me.’
When did we see You a stranger and take You in, or naked and clothe You?
When did we see You sick or in prison and visit You?’
For I was hungry and you gave Me nothing to eat, I was thirsty and you gave Me nothing to drink,
I was a stranger and you did not take Me in, I was naked and you did not clothe Me, I was sick and in prison and you did not look after Me.’
