That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea.
Such large crowds gathered around Him that He got into a boat and sat down, while all the people stood on the shore.
And He told them many things in parables, saying,
And as he was sowing, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it.
But when the sun rose, the seedlings were scorched, and they withered because they had no root.
Then the disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Why do You speak to the people in parables?”
He replied,
Whoever has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him.
This is why I speak to them in parables:
For truly I tell you, many prophets and righteous men longed to see what you see but did not see it, and to hear what you hear but did not hear it.
When anyone hears the message of the kingdom but does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the seed sown
But since he has no root, he remains for only a season. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, he quickly falls away.
Jesus put before them another parable:
But while everyone was asleep, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat, and slipped away.
When the wheat sprouted and bore grain, then the weeds also appeared.
Let both grow together until the harvest. At that time I will tell the harvesters: First collect the weeds and tie them in bundles to be burned; then gather the wheat into my barn.’”
He put before them another parable:
Although it is the smallest of all seeds, yet it grows into the largest of garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and nest in its branches.”
He told them still another parable:
Jesus spoke all these things to the crowds in parables. He did not tell them anything without using a parable.
So was fulfilled what was spoken through the prophet:
Then Jesus dismissed the crowds and went into the house. His disciples came to Him and said, “Explain to us the parable of the weeds in the field.”
He replied,
The field is the world, and the good seed represents the sons of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one,
and the enemy who sows them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the harvesters are angels.
The Son of Man will send out His angels, and they will weed out of His kingdom every cause of sin and all who practice lawlessness.
And they will throw them into the fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father.
When he found one very precious pearl, he went away and sold all he had and bought it.
When it was full, the men pulled it ashore. Then they sat down and sorted the good fish into containers, but threw the bad away.
and throw them into the fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then He told them,
When Jesus had finished these parables, He withdrew from that place.
Coming to His hometown, He taught the people in their synagogue, and they were astonished. “Where did this man get such wisdom and miraculous powers?” they asked.
“Isn’t this the carpenter’s son? Isn’t His mother’s name Mary, and aren’t His brothers James, Joseph,
Aren’t all His sisters with us as well? Where then did this man get all these things?”
And they took offense at Him.
And He did not do many miracles there, because of their unbelief.
