When Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed Him.
Suddenly a leper
Jesus reached out His hand and touched the man.
Then Jesus instructed him,
When Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came and pleaded with Him,
“Lord, my servant
“I will go and heal him,”
The centurion answered, “Lord, I am not worthy to have You come under my roof. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed.
For I myself am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. I tell one to go, and he goes, and another to come, and he comes. I tell my servant to do something, and he does it.”
When Jesus heard this, He marveled and said to those following Him,
I say to you that many will come from the east and the west to share the banquet with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.
But the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
Then Jesus said to the centurion,
When Jesus arrived at Peter’s house, He saw Peter’s mother-in-law sick in bed with a fever.
So He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and began to serve Him.
When evening came, many who were demon-possessed were brought to Jesus, and He drove out the spirits with a word and healed all the sick.
This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah:
When Jesus saw a large crowd around Him, He gave orders to cross to the other side of the sea.
And one of the scribes came to Him and said, “Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.”
Jesus replied,
Another of His disciples requested, “Lord, first let me go and bury my father.”
But Jesus told him,
When He got into the boat, His disciples followed Him.
Suddenly a violent storm came up on the sea, so that the boat was engulfed by the waves. But Jesus was sleeping.
The disciples went and woke Him, saying, “Lord, save us! We are perishing!”
“You of little faith,”
The men were amazed and asked, “What kind of man is this? Even the winds and the sea obey Him!”
When Jesus arrived on the other side in the region of the Gadarenes,
“What do You want with us, Son of God?” they shouted. “Have You come here to torture us before the appointed time?”
In the distance a large herd of pigs was feeding.
So the demons begged Jesus, “If You drive us out, send us into the herd of pigs.”
“Go!”
Those tending the pigs ran off into the town and reported all this, including the account of the demon-possessed men.
Then the whole town went out to meet Jesus. And when they saw Him, they begged Him to leave their region.
