He agreed to pay them a denarius
‘You also go into my vineyard,’ he said, ‘and I will pay you whatever is right.’
So they went.
So when the original workers came, they assumed they would receive more. But each of them also received a denarius.
‘These men who were hired last worked only one hour,’ they said, ‘and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden and the scorching heat of the day.’
Take your pay and go. I want to give this last man the same as I gave you.
Do I not have the right to do as I please with what is mine? Or are you envious because I am generous?’
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, He took the twelve disciples aside and said,
“Look, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes. They will condemn Him to death
and will deliver Him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. And on the third day He will be raised to life.”
Then the mother of Zebedee’s sons came to Jesus with her sons and knelt down to make a request of Him.
“What do you want?”
“You do not know what you are asking,”
“You will indeed drink My cup,”
When the ten heard about this, they were indignant with the two brothers.
But Jesus called them aside and said,
It shall not be this way among you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant,
and whoever wants to be first among you must be your slave —
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many.”
As they were leaving Jericho, a large crowd followed Him.
And there were two blind men sitting beside the road. When they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, “Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!”
The crowd admonished them to be silent, but they cried out all the louder, “Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!”
Jesus stopped and called them.
“Lord,” they answered, “let our eyes be opened.”
Moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes, and at once they received their sight and followed Him.
