When Jesus saw the crowds, He went up on the mountain and sat down. His disciples came to Him,
and He began to teach them, saying:
Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets before you.
Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a basket. Instead, they set it on a stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house.
In the same way, let your light shine before men, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven.
For I tell you truly, until heaven and earth pass away, not a single jot, not a stroke of a pen, will disappear from the Law until everything is accomplished.
For I tell you that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother
leave your gift there before the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother; then come and offer your gift.
Truly I tell you, you will not get out until you have paid the last penny.
But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
If your right eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to depart into hell.
But I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, brings adultery upon her.
But I tell you not to swear at all: either by heaven, for it is God’s throne;
or by the earth, for it is His footstool; or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.
Nor should you swear by your head, for you cannot make a single hair white or black.
Simply let your ‘Yes’ be ‘Yes,’ and your ‘No,’ ‘No.’ Anything more comes from the evil one.
But I tell you not to resist an evil person. If someone slaps you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also;
if someone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well;
and if someone forces you to go one mile,
Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.
But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,
that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.
If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Do not even tax collectors do the same?
And if you greet only your brothers, what are you doing more than others? Do not even Gentiles do the same?
