When Jesus had finished saying these things, He left Galilee and went into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan.
Large crowds followed Him, and He healed them there.
Then some Pharisees came and tested Him by asking, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?”
Jesus answered,
and said, ‘For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh’
So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, let man not separate.”
“Why then,” they asked, “did Moses order a man to give his wife a certificate of divorce and send her away?
Jesus replied,
Now I tell you that whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another woman commits adultery.
His disciples said to Him, “If this is the case between a man and his wife, it is better not to marry.”
“Not everyone can accept this word,”
For there are eunuchs who were born that way; others were made that way by men; and still others live like eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. The one who can accept this should accept it.”
Then little children were brought to Jesus for Him to place His hands on them and pray for them. And the disciples rebuked those who brought them.
But Jesus said,
And after He had placed His hands on them, He went on from there.
Just then a man came up to Jesus and inquired, “Teacher, what good thing must I do to obtain eternal life?”
“Why do you ask Me about what is good?”
“Which ones?” the man asked.
honor your father and mother, and love your neighbor as yourself.’
“All these I have kept,” said the young man. “What do I still lack?”
Jesus told him,
When the young man heard this, he went away in sorrow, because he had great wealth.
Then Jesus said to His disciples,
Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.”
When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished and asked, “Who then can be saved?”
Jesus looked at them and said,
“Look,” Peter replied, “we have left everything to follow You. What then will there be for us?”
Jesus said to them,
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife
But many who are first will be last, and the last will be first.[’’]
