At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry and began to pick the heads of grain and eat them.
When the Pharisees saw this, they said to Him, “Look, Your disciples are doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath.”
Jesus replied,
He entered the house of God, and he and his companions ate the consecrated bread,
But I tell you that One greater than the temple is here.
For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.”
Moving on from there, Jesus entered their synagogue,
and a man with a withered hand was there. In order to accuse Jesus, they asked Him, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?”
He replied,
How much more valuable is a man than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”
Then Jesus said to the man,
But the Pharisees went out and plotted how they might kill Jesus.
Aware of this, Jesus withdrew from that place. Large crowds followed Him, and He healed them all,
warning them not to make Him known.
This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah:
“Here is My Servant,
He will not quarrel or cry out;
A bruised reed He will not break,
In His name the nations will put their hope.”
Then a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to Jesus, and He healed the man so that he could speak and see.
The crowds were astounded and asked, “Could this be the Son of David?”
But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, “Only by Beelzebul,
Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them,
If Satan drives out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then can his kingdom stand?
And if I drive out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons drive them out? So then, they will be your judges.
But if I drive out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the one to come.
You brood of vipers, how can you who are evil say anything good? For out of the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man brings good things out of his good store of treasure, and the evil man brings evil things out of his evil store of treasure.
But I tell you that men will give an account on the day of judgment for every careless word they have spoken.
For by your words you will be acquitted, and by your words you will be condemned.”
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees said to Him, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from You.”
Jesus replied,
For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so the Son of Man will be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
The Queen of the South will rise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and now One greater than Solomon is here.
Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I left.’ On its return, it finds the house vacant, swept clean, and put in order.
Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and dwell there. And the final plight of that man is worse than the first. So will it be with this wicked generation.”
While Jesus was still speaking to the crowds, His mother and brothers stood outside, wanting to speak to Him.
Someone told Him, “Look, Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to speak to You.”
But Jesus replied,
Pointing to His disciples, He said,
For whoever does the will of My Father in heaven is My brother and sister and mother.”
