Once again Jesus began to teach beside the sea, and such a large crowd gathered around Him that He got into a boat and sat in it, while all the people crowded along the shore.
And He taught them many things in parables, and in His teaching He said,
“Listen! A farmer went out to sow his seed.
And as he was sowing, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it.
But when the sun rose, the seedlings were scorched, and they withered because they had no root.
Then Jesus said,
As soon as Jesus was alone with the Twelve and those around Him, they asked Him about the parable.
He replied,
so that,
Then Jesus said to them,
Some are like the seeds
But they themselves have no root, and they remain for only a season. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, they quickly fall away.
but the worries of this life, the deceitfulness of wealth, and the desire for other things come in and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
Jesus also said to them,
For there is nothing hidden that will not be disclosed, and nothing concealed that will not be brought to light.
He went on to say,
For whoever has will be given more. But whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him.”
Jesus also said,
Night and day he sleeps and wakes, and the seed sprouts and grows, though he knows not how.
All by itself the earth produces a crop— first the stalk, then the head, then grain that ripens within.
And as soon as the grain is ripe, he swings the sickle, because the harvest has come.
Then He asked,
It is like a mustard seed, which is the smallest of all seeds sown upon the earth.
But after it is planted, it grows to be the largest of all garden plants and puts forth great branches, so that the birds of the air nest in its shade.”
With many such parables Jesus spoke the word to them, to the extent that they could understand.
He did not tell them anything without using a parable. But privately He explained everything to His own disciples.
When that evening came, He said to His disciples,
After they had dismissed the crowd, they took Jesus with them, since He was already in the boat. And there were other boats with Him.
Soon a violent windstorm came up, and the waves were breaking over the boat, so that it was being swamped.
But Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on the cushion. So they woke Him and said, “Teacher, don’t You care that we are perishing?”
Then Jesus got up and rebuked the wind and the sea.
“Why are you so afraid?”
Overwhelmed with fear, they asked one another, “Who is this, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?”
