A few days later Jesus went back to Capernaum. And when the people heard that He was home,
they gathered in such large numbers that there was no more room, not even outside the door, as Jesus spoke the word to them.
Then a paralytic was brought to Him, carried by four men.
Since they were unable to get to Jesus through the crowd, they uncovered the roof above Him, made an opening, and lowered the paralytic on his mat.
When Jesus saw their faith, He said to the paralytic,
But some of the scribes were sitting there and thinking in their hearts,
“Why does this man speak like this? He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
At once Jesus knew in His spirit that they were thinking this way within themselves.
“Which is easier: to say to a paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up, pick up your mat, and walk’?
But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins...”
“I tell you, get up, pick up your mat, and go home.”
And immediately the man got up, picked up his mat, and walked out in front of them all. As a result, they were all astounded and glorified God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this!”
Once again Jesus went out beside the sea. All the people came to Him, and He taught them there.
As He was walking along, He saw Levi son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth.
While Jesus was dining at Levi’s house, many tax collectors and sinners were eating with Him and His disciples — for there were many who followed Him.
When the scribes who were Pharisees saw Jesus eating with these people, they asked His disciples, “Why does He eat
On hearing this, Jesus told them,
Now John’s disciples and the Pharisees were often fasting. So people came to Jesus and asked, “Why don’t Your disciples fast like John’s disciples and those of the Pharisees?”
Jesus replied,
But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them; then they will fast.
One Sabbath Jesus was passing through the grainfields, and His disciples began to pick the heads of grain as they walked along.
So the Pharisees said to Him, “Look, why are they doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”
Jesus replied,
During the high priesthood of Abiathar, he entered the house of God and ate the consecrated bread,
Then Jesus declared,
Therefore, the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.”
