As Jesus was leaving the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, “Teacher, look at the magnificent stones and buildings!”
“Do you see all these great buildings?”
While Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Him privately,
“Tell us, when will these things happen? And what will be the sign that they are about to be fulfilled?”
Jesus began by telling them,
Many will come in My name, claiming, ‘I am He,’ and will deceive many.
When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed.  These things  must happen, but the end is still to come.
Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places, as well as famines. These are the beginning of birth pains.
And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations.
But when they arrest you and hand you over, do not worry beforehand what to say. Instead, speak whatever you are given at that time, for it will not be you speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
You will be hated by everyone because of My name, but the one who perseveres to the end will be saved.
Let no one on the housetop go back inside to retrieve anything from his house.
And let no one in the field return for his cloak.
Pray that this will not occur in the winter.
For those will be days of tribulation unseen from the beginning of God’s creation until now, and never to be seen again.
If the Lord had not cut short those days, nobody would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, whom He has chosen, He has cut them short.
For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform signs and wonders to deceive even the elect, if that were possible.
So be on your guard; I have told you everything in advance.
And He will send out the angels to gather His elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven.
So also, when you see these things happening, know that He is near,
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass away until all these things have happened.
Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will never pass away.
Be on your guard and stay alert!
Therefore keep watch, because you do not know when the master of the house will return — whether in the evening, at midnight, when the rooster crows, or in the morning.
Otherwise, he may arrive without notice and find you sleeping.
And what I say to you, I say to everyone: Keep watch!”
