Then Jesus began to speak to them in parables:
But they seized the servant, beat him, and sent him away empty-handed.
So they seized the son, killed him, and threw him out of the vineyard.
Have you never read this Scripture:
At this, the leaders sought
Later, they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to catch Jesus in His words.
“Teacher,” they said, “we know that You are honest and seek favor from no one. Indeed, You are impartial and teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay them or not?”
But Jesus saw through their hypocrisy and said,
So they brought it, and He asked them,
Then Jesus told them,
Then the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Jesus and questioned Him:
“Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies and leaves a wife but no children, the man is to marry his brother’s widow and raise up offspring for him.
Now there were seven brothers. The first one married and died, leaving no children.
Then the second one married the widow, but he also died and left no children. And the third did likewise.
In this way, none of the seven left any children. And last of all, the woman died.
In the resurrection, then,
Jesus said to them,
When the dead rise, they will neither marry nor be given in marriage. Instead, they will be like the angels in heaven.
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are badly mistaken!”
Now one of the scribes had come up and heard their debate. Noticing how well Jesus had answered them, he asked Him, “Which commandment is the most important of all?”
Jesus replied,
Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.’
The second is this: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’
“Right, Teacher,” the scribe replied. “You have stated correctly that God is One and there is no other but Him,
and to love Him with all your heart and with all your understanding and with all your strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. This is more important than all burnt offerings and sacrifices.”
When Jesus saw that the man had answered wisely, He said,
While Jesus was teaching in the temple courts,
Speaking by the Holy Spirit, David himself declared:
In His teaching Jesus also said,
and to have the chief seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets.
They defraud widows of their houses,
As Jesus was sitting opposite the treasury, He watched the crowd putting money into it. And many rich people put in large amounts.
Then one poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which amounted to a small fraction of a denarius.
Jesus called His disciples to Him and said,
For they all contributed out of their surplus, but she out of her poverty has put in all she had to live on.”
