Then Balaam said to Balak, “Build for me seven altars here, and prepare for me seven bulls and seven rams.”
So Balak did as Balaam had instructed, and Balak and Balaam offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
“Stay here by your burnt offering while I am gone,” Balaam said to Balak. “Perhaps the LORD will meet with me. And whatever He reveals to me, I will tell you.”
and God met with him. “I have set up seven altars,” Balaam said, “and on each altar I have offered a bull and a ram.”
Then the LORD put a message in Balaam’s mouth, saying, “Return to Balak and give him this message.”
So he returned to Balak, who was standing there beside his burnt offering, with all the princes of Moab.
And Balaam lifted up an oracle, saying:
How can I curse those whom God has not cursed?
For I see them from atop the rocky cliffs,
Who can count the dust of Jacob
Then Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I brought you here to curse my enemies, and behold, you have only blessed them!”
But Balaam replied, “Should I not speak exactly what the LORD puts in my mouth?”
Then Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place where you can see them. You will only see the outskirts of their camp — not all of them. And from there, curse them for me.”
So Balak took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, where he built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
Balaam said to Balak, “Stay here beside your burnt offering while I meet the LORD over there.”
And the LORD met with Balaam and put a message in his mouth, saying, “Return to Balak and speak what I tell you.”
So he returned to Balak, who was standing there by his burnt offering with the princes of Moab.
Then Balaam lifted up an oracle, saying:
God is not a man, that He should lie,
I have indeed received a command to bless;
He considers no disaster for Jacob;
God brought them out of Egypt
For there is no spell against Jacob
Behold, the people rise like a lioness;
Now Balak said to Balaam, “Then neither curse them at all nor bless them at all!”
But Balaam replied, “Did I not tell you that whatever the LORD says, I must do?”
“Please come,” said Balak, “I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God that you curse them for me from there.”
And Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, which overlooks the wasteland.
Then Balaam said, “Build for me seven altars here, and prepare for me seven bulls and seven rams.”
So Balak did as Balaam had instructed, and he offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
