After the plague had ended, the LORD said to Moses and Eleazar son of Aaron the priest,
“Take a census of the whole congregation of Israel by the houses of their fathers — all those twenty years of age or older who can serve in the army of Israel.”
So on the plains of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho, Moses and Eleazar the priest issued the instruction,
“Take a census of the men twenty years of age or older,
Reuben was the firstborn of Israel. These were the descendants of Reuben:
the Hezronite clan from Hezron,
These were the clans of Reuben, and their registration numbered 43,730.
Now the son of Pallu was Eliab,
and the sons of Eliab were Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram.
And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them along with Korah, whose followers died when the fire consumed 250 men. They serve as a warning sign.
However, the line of Korah did not die out.
These were the descendants of Simeon by their clans:
the Zerahite clan from Zerah,
These were the clans of Simeon, and there were 22,200 men.
These were the descendants of Gad by their clans:
the Oznite clan from Ozni,
the Arodite clan from Arod,
These were the clans of Gad, and their registration numbered . . . 40,500.
The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, but they died in the land of Canaan.
These were the descendants of Judah by their clans:
And these were the descendants of Perez:
These were the clans of Judah, and their registration numbered . . . 76,500.
These were the descendants of Issachar by their clans:
the Jashubite clan from Jashub,
These were the clans of Issachar, and their registration numbered . . . 64,300.
These were the descendants of Zebulun by their clans:
These were the clans of Zebulun, and their registration numbered . . . 60,500.
The descendants of Joseph included the clans of Manasseh and Ephraim.
These were the descendants of Manasseh:
These were the descendants of Gilead:
the Asrielite clan from Asriel,
the Shemidaite clan from Shemida,
Now Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons but only daughters. The names of his daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
These were the clans of Manasseh, and their registration numbered . . . 52,700.
These were the descendants of Ephraim by their clans:
And the descendants of Shuthelah were the Eranite clan from Eran.
These were the clans of Ephraim, and their registration numbered . . . 32,500.
These were the descendants of Benjamin by their clans:
the Shuphamite clan from Shupham,
And the descendants of Bela from Ard and Naaman were the Ardite clan from Ard
These were the clans of Benjamin, and their registration numbered . . . 45,600.
These were the descendants of Dan by their clans:
All of them were Shuhamite clans, and their registration numbered . . . 64,400.
These were the descendants of Asher by their clans:
And these were the descendants of Beriah:
And the name of Asher’s daughter was Serah.
These were the clans of Asher, and their registration numbered . . . 53,400.
These were the descendants of Naphtali by their clans:
the Jezerite clan from Jezer,
These were the clans of Naphtali, and their registration numbered . . . 45,400.
These men of Israel numbered 601,730 in all.
Then the LORD said to Moses,
“The land is to be divided among the tribes as an inheritance, according to the number of names.
Increase the inheritance for a large tribe and decrease it for a small one; each tribe is to receive its inheritance according to the number of those registered.
Indeed, the land must be divided by lot; they shall receive their inheritance according to the names of the tribes of their fathers.
Each inheritance is to be divided by lot among the larger and smaller tribes.”
Now these were the Levites numbered by their clans:
These were the families of the Levites:
and Amram’s wife was named Jochebed. She was also a daughter of Levi, born to Levi in Egypt. To Amram she bore Aaron, Moses, and their sister Miriam.
Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar were born to Aaron,
but Nadab and Abihu died when they offered unauthorized
The registration of the Levites totaled 23,000, every male a month old or more; they were not numbered among the other Israelites, because no inheritance was given to them among the Israelites.
These were the ones numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest when they counted the Israelites on the plains of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho.
Among all these, however, there was not one who had been numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest when they counted the Israelites in the Wilderness of Sinai.
For the LORD had told them that they would surely die in the wilderness. Not one was left except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.
